## Run EDTA in  *A. Thaliana*  18 strains Pangenome

This folder has the scripts to run EDTA in the pangenome of the 18 A. thaliana PacBio accessions. The rationale behind was to unify as much as possible the TE annotation of the 18 different thaliana accessions and avoid same TEs being called differently in different annotations.

### Steps:

1.- We create the pangenome by running `create_pangenome.sh`. This script does two things. First, it adds an accession specific tag to each chromosome  of each accession in its name in order to identify which chromosome belongs to which accessions. Then it  saves a version of the tag modified accession genome separately and a concatenated version that we call: "pangenome.fasta".

2.-  It order to call TEs already identified in Col-0  and have them with the same name as in Tair10, we dowload  the curated version of the TAIR10 Transposable elements from the TAIR10 website: https://www.arabidopsis.org/download_files/Genes/TAIR10_genome_release/TAIR10_transposable_elements/TAIR10_TE.fas. Then, we modify the headers to make them compatible with EDTA style. Finally, we also add telomeres and rDNA clusters to this library  so they will get annotated as well.  We accomplish this by running `TAIR10_TElib_mod.sh`.

3.-  We run the first module of EDTA where it searches the raw TE candidates in each one of our  *A.thaliana* genomes that shape our pangenome: `EDTA_raw_LTR.sh`  `EDTA_raw_TIR.sh` `EDTA_raw_Helitron.sh` can be run simultaneously .

4.- Then, we bring together all these different files generated by EDTA raw in a common raw folder to get the second module of EDTA to be able to continue from there.  We do this by running: ` merge_raw_output.sh`.

5.-  Finally, we run the second module of EDTA with: `EDTA_pangenome.sh`
